docs: add agent skill (SKILL.md) for the Apify CLI (#1233)
apify/apify-cli: skills/apify/SKILL.md

---
name: apify-cli
description: Patterns for invoking the Apify CLI (`apify`) from agents. Covers authentication, creating/running/pushing Actors, calling Actors in the cloud, and reading results from datasets and key-value stores.
---

## Start here

Run `apify -h` first to see the available commands and global options, then `apify <command> -h` (e.g. `apify call -h`) for the args and flags of a specific command. This is the source of truth — prefer it over assumptions.

## Non-interactive use

Many commands prompt when run interactively. To run without prompts, pass every required argument and flag explicitly:

- `apify create <name> --template <template>` — skip the create wizard.
- `apify init <name>` — skip the init prompt.
- `-y` / `--yes` on destructive commands (`apify actors rm`, etc.) — auto-confirm.
- `apify login --token <token>` — log in without the interactive token prompt.

If a command's help shows an "interactive note", it lists exactly which flags make it non-interactive.

## Auth

> - Preferred for automation: set `APIFY_TOKEN` in the environment (no `apify login` needed). Get a token at https://console.apify.com/settings/integrations.

Reviewer: Suggestion: this might be potentially dangerous. If user, for any reason, has the `APIFY_TOKEN` already present in their environment, it would use it implicitly and possibly silently.

Overall, we should, instead, refer to `https://apify.com/auth.md` here.

Additional instructions on authentication bellow are fine, but also not ideal as we are going to have 2 sources of truth. The auth.md should have a CLI section instead (working on one currently).

- Or persist a session once: `apify login --token <token>`.
- Verify auth: `apify info` (prints the logged-in user; non-zero exit / error if not authenticated).
- Print the stored token: `apify auth token`.

## Structured output

- `--json` is supported on most list/info commands (`apify actors ls --json`, `apify actors info <id> --json`, `apify datasets info <id> --json`, `apify runs ls --json`, etc.). Use it and parse with `jq`; don't scrape the human table.
- List commands paginate — control with `--limit` / `--offset` (and `--desc`).
- Dataset items: `apify datasets get-items <datasetId> --format json`. Use `--limit` / `--offset`.

## Core workflows

**Discover Actors in the Apify Store**

Before assuming an Actor name or scripting a raw Store query, search for an existing Actor:

```sh
apify actors search "jobs scraper" --json                 # no auth required
apify actors search "ai" --pricing-model FREE --sort-by popularity --limit 5
```

Run `apify actors search -h` to see the available filters (pricing model, category, username, sort order, pagination) and their accepted values.

> Pricing matters: prefer a `FREE` Actor when one covers the task. Check an Actor's pricing before running it with `apify actors info <actor> --json` (look at `currentPricingInfo`).

Reviewer: >prefer a `FREE` Actor when one covers the task.

Might lead to agents picking FREE over well supported, popular and well rated Actors. We might need more clarification that it is a combination of all above that matters.

- `apify create <name> --template <template>` — skip the create wizard.
- `apify init <name>` or `apify init --yes` — skip the init prompt.
- `-y` / `--yes` on destructive commands (`apify actors rm`, etc.) — auto-confirm.
- `apify login --token <token>` — log in without the interactive token prompt.

If a command's help shows an "interactive note", it lists exactly which flags make it non-interactive.

## Auth

- Preferred for automation: set `APIFY_TOKEN` in the environment (no `apify login` needed). Get a token at https://console.apify.com/settings/integrations.
- Or persist a session once: `apify login --token <token>`.
- Verify auth: `apify info` (prints the logged-in user; non-zero exit / error if not authenticated).
- Print the stored token: `apify auth token`.

## Structured output

- `--json` is supported on most list/info commands (`apify actors ls --json`, `apify actors info <id> --json`, `apify datasets info <id> --json`, `apify runs ls --json`, etc.). Use it and parse with `jq`; don't scrape the human table.
- List commands paginate — control with `--limit` / `--offset` (and `--desc`).

> - Dataset items: `apify datasets get-items <datasetId> --format json` (also `jsonl`, `csv`, `xlsx`, `html`, `rss`, `xml`). Use `--limit` / `--offset`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Dataset items: `apify datasets get-items <datasetId> --format json`. Use `--limit` / `--offset`.
```

## Core workflows

**Develop and deploy a local Actor**

```sh
apify create my-actor --template <template>     # or run `apify create` and pick interactively
# template names: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/apify/actor-templates/master/templates/manifest.json
cd my-actor
apify run                                        # run locally; --input / --input-file - for input
apify push                                       # build & deploy to the platform
```

**Run an Actor in the cloud and get results**

```sh
apify call apify/website-content-crawler -i '{"startUrls":[{"url":"https://example.com"}]}' --json
# or non-blocking: apify actors start <actor> --json   (returns run details immediately)
# inspect input schema first: apify actors info <actor> --input
```

> `apify call` flags: `-i`/`--input` inline JSON, `-f`/`--input-file` (use `-` for stdin), `-o`/`--output-dataset` to print the result dataset, `-s`/`--silent`, `-m`/`--memory`, `-t`/`--timeout`, `-b`/`--build`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Non-obvious `apify call` flags: `-f -` reads input from stdin; `-o`/`--output-dataset` prints the result dataset. Run `apify call -h` for the full list.
```
